docs(apim): add gko monitoring section (#911)
gravitee-io/gravitee-docs: pages/apim/3.x/kubernetes/apim-kubernetes-operator-monitoring.adoc

[[apim-kubernetes-operator-monitoring]]

> = Monitor the Gravitee Kubernetes Operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Monitoring the Gravitee Kubernetes Operator
```

:page-sidebar: apim_3_x_sidebar
:page-permalink: apim/3.x/apim-kubernetes-operator-monitoring.html
:page-folder: apim/kubernetes
:page-layout: apim3x

> [label label-version]#New in version 3.19.0#

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[label label-version]#New in version 3.20.0#
```

[label label-version]#BETA release#

== Overview

This section provides steps on how to monitor the Gravitee Kubernetes Operator (GKO) on an existing APIM-ready Kubernetes cluster.

> NOTE: If you do not have an existing Gravitee Kubernetes Operator, you can set up a new one - see the link:{{ '/apim/3.x/apim-kubernetes-operator-installation-cluster.html' | relative_url }} for details. Once you have the operator set up and running, return to this section to deploy the GKO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If you do not have an existing Gravitee Kubernetes Operator deployment, you can easily set up a new one - see link:{{ '/apim/3.x/apim-kubernetes-operator-installation-cluster.html' | relative_url }}[Deploying GKO on a Kubernetes cluster] for details. Once you have the operator set up and running, return to this page to deploy GKO monitoring.
```

== Prerequisites

> Before you start the deployment process, ensure that you have access to the following libraries:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you start the monitoring deployment process, ensure that you have access to the following libraries:
```

> - The kubectl command-line tool installed on your local machine, configured to connect to your cluster. You can read more about installing kubectl in the official documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The kubectl command-line tool installed on your local machine, configured to connect to your cluster. Learn more about installing kubectl in the official Kubernetes documentation.
```

Reviewer: Perhaps provide a link?

- The Helm package manager installed on your local machine. You can read more about installing Helm in the link:https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/[official documentation].

== Deploying the Prometheus Stack

> The link:https://github.com/prometheus-operator/kube-prometheus[kube-prometheus repository] is a collection of Kubernetes manifests, link:https://grafana.com/[Grafana] dashboards, and link:https://prometheus.io/[Prometheus rules] combined with documentation and scripts to provide easy to operate end-to-end Kubernetes cluster monitoring with Prometheus using the Prometheus Operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The link:https://github.com/prometheus-operator/kube-prometheus[kube-prometheus repository] is a collection of Kubernetes manifests, link:https://grafana.com/[Grafana] dashboards, and link:https://prometheus.io/[Prometheus rules], combined with documentation and scripts to provide easy-to-operate, end-to-end Kubernetes cluster monitoring with Prometheus using the Prometheus Operator.
```

=== STEP 1: Run the deployment script

> Run the following command in your command-line tool (the working directory does not matter) create the namespace which will be used to deploy the Prometheus stack:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command in your command-line tool (the working directory does not matter) to create the namespace to be used to deploy the Prometheus stack:
```

....
kubectl create namespace monitoring
kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=monitoring
....

> Before installation, please check you’ve added the dedicated repository to helm:

Reviewer: This part should be moved above the installation part above

Author: No I'm not sure sorry 😅. This is really logical to do it here according to the documentation I wrote and what the user will do. 
However I agree maybe we could rephrase this line. I proposed something else in my last push on the branch so feel free to tell me if it's better or if you really think we should move this section.

Reviewer: It's perfectly clear now with the rewritten sub-step, thanks @Okhelifi :)

....
helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
helm install prometheus prometheus-community/kube-prometheus-stack --debug
....

> Now we can check if the Prometheus and Grafana has been installed correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check if Prometheus and Grafana have been installed correctly:
```

....
NAME                                      TYPE        EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                      AGE
prometheus-kube-state-metrics             ClusterIP   <none>        8080/TCP                     3m9s
prometheus-prometheus-node-exporter       ClusterIP   <none>        9100/TCP                     3m9s
prometheus-grafana                        ClusterIP   <none>        80/TCP                       3m9s
prometheus-kube-prometheus-prometheus     ClusterIP   <none>        9090/TCP                     3m9s
prometheus-kube-prometheus-operator       ClusterIP   <none>        443/TCP                      3m9s
prometheus-kube-prometheus-alertmanager   ClusterIP   <none>        9093/TCP                     3m9s
alertmanager-operated                     ClusterIP   <none>        9093/TCP,9094/TCP,9094/UDP   2m52s
prometheus-operated                       ClusterIP   <none>        9090/TCP                     2m51s
....

To access the Grafana dashboard, run the following command:

....
kubectl port-forward -n monitoring svc/prometheus-grafana 8000:80
....

> Grafana is now available at http://localhost:8000. By default an admin user is created. The password can be easily found running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grafana is now available at http://localhost:8000. An admin user is created by default. To find out the password for that user, run the following command:
```

....
k get secrets prometheus-grafana -n monitoring -o jsonpath='{.data.admin-password}'|base64 -d
....

=== STEP 2: Link the Prometheus stack to the GKO

> The Prometheus resource declaratively describes the desired state of a Prometheus deployment, while ServiceMonitor resources describe the targets to be monitored by Prometheus. The Gravitee Kubernetes Operator (GKO) provides a basic ServiceMonitor resource that can be discovered by Prometheus. To enable this, you need to run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Prometheus resource declaratively describes the desired state of a Prometheus deployment, while `ServiceMonitor` resources describe the targets to be monitored by Prometheus. The Gravitee Kubernetes Operator (GKO) provides a basic `ServiceMonitor` resource that can be discovered by Prometheus. To enable this, run the following command:
```

....
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gravitee-io/gravitee-kubernetes-operator/alpha/config/prometheus/monitor.yaml
....

> To check if the ServiceMonitor has been created, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check if the `ServiceMonitor` resource has been created, run the following command:
```

....
kubectl get servicemonitors -n gko-system
....

The command-line output should include `controller-manager-metrics-monitor`, as shown in the example below:

....
NAME                                 AGE
controller-manager-metrics-monitor   21s
....

> NOTE: You're now ready to play with the operator. However, most of the actions described here are not persistent and should be mainly used for locally running or dev purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Most of the actions described above are not persistent and should mainly be used for development/test purposes and not in production.
```
